blkparse(1)                                                                                                        blkparse(1)



NAME
       blkparse - produce formatted output of event streams of block devices



SYNOPSIS
       blkparse [ options ]



DESCRIPTION
       The  blkparse utility will attempt to combine streams of events for various devices on various CPUs, and produce a for‐
       matted output of the event information.  Specifically, it will take the (machine-readable) output of the blktrace util‐
       ity and convert it to a nicely formatted and human-readable form.

       As with blktrace, some details concerning blkparse will help in understanding the command line options presented below.



       - By default, blkparse expects to run in a post-processing mode; one where the trace events have been saved by a previ‐
         ous run of blktrace, and blkparse is combining event streams and dumping formatted data.

         blkparse may be run in a live manner concurrently with blktrace by specifying -i - to blkparse, and combining it with
         the live option for blktrace.  An example would be:

            % blktrace -d /dev/sda -o - | blkparse -i -


       - You  can  set  how many blkparse batches event reads via the -b option, the default is to handle events in batches of
         512.


       - If you have saved event traces in blktrace with different output names (via the -o  option  to  blktrace),  you  must
         specify the same input name via the -i option.


       - The format of the output data can be controlled via the -f or -F options -- see OUTPUT DESCRIPTION AND FORMATTING for
         details.


       By default, blkparse sends formatted data to standard output. This may be changed via the -o option, or text output can
       be disabled via the -O option. A merged binary stream can be produced using the -d option.




OPTIONS
       -b batch
       --batch={batch}
              Standard input read batching

       -i file
       --input=file
              Specifies base name for input files -- default is device.blktrace.cpu.

              As noted above, specifying -i - runs in live mode with blktrace (reading data from standard in).

       -F typ,fmt
       --format=typ,fmt
       -f fmt
       --format-spec=fmt
              Sets output format (See OUTPUT DESCRIPTION AND FORMATTING for details.)

              The -f form specifies a format for all events

              The  -F  form allows one to specify a format for a specific event type. The single-character typ field is one of
              the action specifiers described in ACTION IDENTIFIERS.

       -M
       --no-msgs
              When -d is specified, this will stop messages from being output to the file. (Can seriously reduce the  size  of
              the resultant file when using the CFQ I/O scheduler.)

       -h
       --hash-by-name
              Hash processes by name, not by PID

       -o file
       --output=file
              Output file

       -O
       --no-text-output
              Do not produce text output, used for binary (-d) only

       -d file
       --dump-binary=file
              Binary output file

       -q
       --quiet
              Quiet mode

       -s
       --per-program-stats
              Displays data sorted by program

       -t
       --track-ios
              Display time deltas per IO

       -w span
       --stopwatch=span
              Display traces for the span specified -- where span can be:
              end-time -- Display traces from time 0 through end-time (in ns)
              or
              start:end-time -- Display traces from time start through end-time (in ns).

       -v
       --verbose
              More verbose marginal on marginal errors

       -V
       --version
              Display version



TRACE ACTIONS
       The following trace actions are recognised:


       C  --  complete  A  previously  issued  request has been completed.  The output will detail the sector and size of that
           request, as well as the success or failure of it.


       D -- issued A request that previously resided on the block layer queue or in the i/o scheduler has  been  sent  to  the
           driver.


       I  -- inserted A request is being sent to the i/o scheduler for addition to the internal queue and later service by the
           driver. The request is fully formed at this time.


       Q -- queued This notes intent to queue i/o at the given location.  No real requests exists yet.


       B -- bounced The data pages attached to this bio are not reachable by the hardware and must be bounced to a lower  mem‐
           ory  location. This causes a big slowdown in i/o performance, since the data must be copied to/from kernel buffers.
           Usually this can be fixed with using better hardware -- either a better i/o  controller,  or  a  platform  with  an
           IOMMU.


       M  --  back  merge  A previously inserted request exists that ends on the boundary of where this i/o begins, so the i/o
           scheduler can merge them together.


       F -- front merge Same as the back merge, except this i/o ends where a previously inserted requests starts.


       M --front or back merge One of the above


       M -- front or back merge One of the above.


       G -- get request To send any type of request to a block device, a struct request container must be allocated first.


       S -- sleep No available request structures were available, so the issuer has to wait for one to be freed.


       P -- plug When i/o is queued to a previously empty block device queue, Linux will plug the  queue  in  anticipation  of
           future ios being added before this data is needed.


       U -- unplug Some request data already queued in the device, start sending requests to the driver. This may happen auto‐
           matically if a timeout period has passed (see next entry) or if a number of requests have been added to the queue.


       T -- unplug due to timer If nobody requests the i/o that was queued after plugging the queue, Linux will  automatically
           unplug it after a defined period has passed.


       X  --  split  On  raid  or device mapper setups, an incoming i/o may straddle a device or internal zone and needs to be
           chopped up into smaller pieces for service. This may indicate a performance problem due to  a  bad  setup  of  that
           raid/dm  device,  but may also just be part of normal boundary conditions. dm is notably bad at this and will clone
           lots of i/o.


       A -- remap For stacked devices, incoming i/o is remapped to device below it in the i/o stack. The remap action  details
           what exactly is being remapped to what.





OUTPUT DESCRIPTION AND FORMATTING
       The  output  from  blkparse  can be tailored for specific use -- in particular, to ease parsing of output, and/or limit
       output fields to those the user wants to see. The data for fields which can be output include:


       a   Action, a (small) string (1 or 2 characters) -- see table below for more details


       c   CPU id


       C   Command


       d   RWBS field, a (small) string (1-3 characters)  -- see section below for more details


       D   7-character string containing the major and minor numbers of the event's device (separated by a comma).


       e   Error value


       m   Minor number of event's device.


       M   Major number of event's device.


       n   Number of blocks


       N   Number of bytes


       p   Process ID


       P   Display packet data -- series of hexadecimal values


       s   Sequence numbers


       S   Sector number


       t   Time stamp (nanoseconds)


       T   Time stamp (seconds)


       u   Elapsed value in microseconds (-t command line option)


       U   Payload unsigned integer


       Note that the user can optionally specify field display width, and optionally a left-aligned specifier.  These  precede
       field  specifiers, with a '%' character, followed by the optional left-alignment specifier (-) followed by the width (a
       decimal number) and then the field.

       Thus, to specify the command in a 12-character field that is left aligned:

           -f "%-12C"



ACTION IDENTIFIERS
       The following table shows the various actions which may be output:


       A      IO was remapped to a different device


       B      IO bounced


       C      IO completion


       D      IO issued to driver


       F      IO front merged with request on queue


       G      Get request


       I      IO inserted onto request queue


       M      IO back merged with request on queue


       P      Plug request


       Q      IO handled by request queue code


       S      Sleep request


       T      Unplug due to timeout


       U      Unplug request


       X      Split



RWBS DESCRIPTION
       This is a small string containing at least one character ('R' for read, 'W' for write, or 'D' for block discard  opera‐
       tion), and optionally either a 'B' (for barrier operations) or 'S' (for synchronous operations).



DEFAULT OUTPUT
       The standard header (or initial fields displayed) include:

           "%D %2c %8s %5T.%9t %5p %2a %3d"

       Breaking this down:


       %D     Displays the event's device major/minor as: %3d,%-3d.


       %2c    CPU ID (2-character field).


       %8s    Sequence number


       %5T.%9t
              5-character  field  for the seconds portion of the time stamp and a 9-character field for the nanoseconds in the
              time stamp.


       %5p    5-character field for the process ID.


       %2a    2-character field for one of the actions.


       %3d    3-character field for the RWBS data.

              Seeing this in action:

                  8,0    3        1     0.000000000   697  G   W 223490 + 8 [kjournald]

              The header is the data in this line up to the 223490 (starting block).  The default output for all  event  types
              includes this header.




DEFAULT OUTPUT PER ACTION
       C -- complete
           If a payload is present, this is presented between parenthesis following the header, followed by the error value.

           If  no  payload is present, the sector and number of blocks are presented (with an intervening plus (+) character).
           If the -t option was specified, then the elapsed time is presented. In either case, it is  followed  by  the  error
           value for the completion.

       B -- bounced
       D -- issued
       I -- inserted
       Q -- queued
           If  a  payload  is  present,  the number of payload bytes is output, followed by the payload in hexadecimal between
           parenthesis.

           If no payload is present, the sector and number of blocks are presented (with an intervening plus  (+)  character).
           If the -t option was specified, then the elapsed time is presented (in parenthesis). In either case, it is followed
           by the command associated with the event (surrounded by square brackets).

       F -- front merge
       G -- get request
       M -- back merge
       S -- sleep
           The starting sector and number of blocks is output (with an intervening plus (+) character), followed by  the  com‐
           mand associated with the event (surrounded by square brackets).

       P -- plug
           The command associated with the event (surrounded by square brackets) is output.

       U -- unplug
       T -- unplug due to timer
           The command associated with the event (surrounded by square brackets) is output, followed by the number of requests
           outstanding.

       X -- split
           The original starting sector followed by the new sector (separated by a slash (/) is output, followed by  the  com‐
           mand associated with the event (surrounded by square brackets).

       A -- remap
           Sector and length is output, along with the original device and sector offset.



EXAMPLES
       To trace the i/o on the device /dev/hda and parse the output to human readable form, use the following command:

           % blktrace -d /dev/sda -o - | blkparse -i -

       (see  blktrace  (8) for more information).  This same behaviour can be achieve with the convenience script btrace.  The
       command

           % btrace /dev/sda

       has exactly the same effect as the previous command. See btrace (8) for more information.

       To trace the i/o on a device and save the output for later processing with blkparse, use blktrace like this:

           % blktrace /dev/sda /dev/sdb

       This will trace i/o on the devices /dev/sda and /dev/sdb and save the recorded information in the files sda and sdb  in
       the  current directory, for the two different devices, respectively.  This trace information can later be parsed by the
       blkparse utility:

           % blkparse sda sdb

       which will output the previously recorded tracing information in human readable form to stdout.



AUTHORS
       blkparse was written by Jens Axboe, Alan D. Brunelle and Nathan Scott.  This man page was  created  from  the  blktrace
       documentation by Bas Zoetekouw.



REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <linux-btrace@vger.kernel.org>


COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2006 Jens Axboe, Alan D. Brunelle and Nathan Scott.
       This  is  free  software.   You  may  redistribute  copies  of  it  under  the  terms of the GNU General Public License
       <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.  There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
       This manual page was created for Debian by Bas Zoetekouw.  It was  derived  from  the  documentation  provided  by  the
       authors and it may be used, distributed and modified under the terms of the GNU General Public License, version 2.
       On Debian systems, the text of the GNU General Public License can be found in /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL-2.


SEE ALSO
       btrace (8), blktrace (8), verify_blkparse (1), blkrawverify (1), btt (1)




blktrace git-20070306202522                             March  6, 2007                                             BLKPARSE(1)
